So jumping straight into this, these 14 verses, we look at this first verse.
He went into the house of one of the rulers of the Pharisees to eat bread on the sabbath.
That they watched him closely.
So what's important to see here is who were they, the Pharisees?
we need to understand these people what they were doing
And these are the Jewish religious people. They were a separate people, and they took pride in this. They literally called themselves the Set Apart Ones because...
because
they were uniquely devoted to following everything that god said in his law and everything that god put forth in the old testaments some of them actually
actually had the audacity to think that if they could just keep the law perfectly for one whole day, that they would usher in the Messiah, that
That God the Father would send the Messiah if they could just follow the law perfectly for one day. And the ironic and tragic thing about it is that the actual Messiah...
Messiah, Jesus Christ himself, is standing there before them, saying,
not because of anything that they did, but because of God's love.
For humanity.
And they completely miss it
They tried to please God enough to send the Messiah.
but they didn't actually want to please god.
and we talked about that in our study the commandments of men and how the jewish people went from understanding that they were set apart and out of worship and adoration for god.
God wanting to live a different life and wanting to obey God because they are a set apart people, right?
and they flipped it upside down.
They instead started going, you know what? In order for God to love us, in order to be...
Good enough. We must do enough so that God,
chooses us.
they changed it from adoration to obligation.
And just like here, they didn't actually want a Messiah.
They didn't need one. Who needs a Messiah if you can save yourself?
And they were righteous in their own eyes.
They didn't think they needed someone to save them. These Pharisees,
are absolutely obsessed with.
with how they look to everybody around them. Parading their religion around.
they wanted to receive the glory only reserved for god and they craved the recognition they craved the spotlight wanting people to see them
These were the Pharisees.
that have invited Jesus to dinner, presumably.
The only way that he would have shown up.
It's with that invitation. It's with that
and even though jesus throughout all of the new testament throughout his entire ministry life he's in heated debates in conversation with the pharisees he still doesn't shy away from shrieking.
from showing up.
he still doesn't shy away from going out and speaking the truth.
He still doesn't shy away from, you know what, I'm going to go and see what they have for me.
See what actually I have for them.
He's not afraid to be around them.
And instead of avoiding the opposition,
That he knows is coming
He's all-knowing.
He goes, he shows up.
and and it's funny because we see that they didn't simply want to get to know jesus better this was like hey you know the pharisees come up they're like you know what let's let's let's get this guy jesus out here.
out here to dinner with us let's just learn a little bit more about him seems kind of interesting i want to know no we see it from this watched him closely.
that they didn't care to know about Jesus. they didn't care whether or not to actually find out if he was the Messiah or not. they were there to
to set them up.
They intentionally invited him over on the sabbath to see whether or not they could catch him.
Catch him in sin.
and we see
that they watched him closely and behold there was a certain man before him who had dropsy a disabled man doesn't just end up at dinner with a bunch of pharisees.
These. They had them there on purpose. Yeah.
They invited the guy.
and the guy was probably all stoked.
He's like, oh my gosh, I get to go with the Pharisees and
despite my station i get to show up and they were just using him but what does he get out of it? he gets healing out of it and and and what does what does he say? jesus answering spoke to the lord.
So the Bible says, And the Bible says, And the Bible says, And the Bible says, And the Bible says
And the guy with dropsies is like, "Yes, please say yes, please say yes, please."
but they kept silent.
So it's a setup. it's it's.
they had.
Brought him there for that reason.
And you notice Jesus answering.
He's answering, but did anyone ask him a question?
No,
No one actually asked Jesus a question.
He answers, and then not only did no one actually ask a question for Jesus to answer,
but then jesus answers the non-question with what?
A question.
Okay, that's crazy. Only God can, only Jesus can do that. Nobody asks a question, he answers them.
And then he asks them a question in answering their non-question because he is omniscient.
He knows everything.
Only Jesus can ask a question
And answering something,
That you have on your heart,
he saw what they were doing
He was, he, they didn't need to say a word. he's responding not to any verbal confrontation but to the con, the condition.
Of their hearts.
but they kept silent and he took him and healed him and let him go that's it that's the only healing it seems like such a
Such an underplayed healing. it was like, hey, look,
this is just a kind of a side a side hustle of what's happening right now. i'm gonna heal you and he's like yes it's like changed his life he's like i it went from really amazing to even better and now i get it.
Now I get healed and Jesus does it. Now let's deal with what you guys are actually trying to do, right?
And again he answers
Answers again.
and we see
That Jesus
Tells them exactly and answers them exactly what?
They need to hear. He doesn't need anybody to add to the conversation.
which of you having a donkey?
Or an ox?
That has fallen into a pit will not immediately pull them out
On the Sabbath.
They could not answer him regarding these things.
So Jesus knows. he knows what is lawful and what is not lawful.
He's not dumb.
He knows before he asks the question, he knows the answer.
and he knows that it's not and some some of the jew and he's actually it's really interesting when you look at it some of the jews actually thought it was illegal
against the law for them in in their specific sect of judaism but but some of them also didn't and he's it's as if he's pitting them against each other saying look you guys don't even agree
I agree on this.
But I know,
It is not.
and if it's not unlawful
To help an animal, then how much better would it be to help a human being?
and they're playing with the heart they're they're using humans as pawns but really jesus is getting to the heart and he's illuminating and helping them understand that this
that they don't actually care about healing people. They don't actually care about the person. It's all just for show.
it's all just to get what they want.
The Pharisees thought that they invited Jesus into their
Little dinner in order to examine them, but what they're seeing is that they're actually being examined.